The exercises in this course will have an associated charge in your AWS account. In this exercise, you will create the following resources:

Amazon Q Developer

The final task in this exercise includes instructions to delete all the resources that you create.

Familiarize yourself with 
Amazon Q Developer pricing
 and the 
AWS Free Tier
.

Exercise Overview
In this exercise, you’ll explore building with Amazon Q Developer using the Visual Studio Code extension. You'll start with a simple, buggy Python CLI application and use Amazon Q Developer in Visual Studio Code to debug, improve, and add functionality to the application.

✏️ Please note that Amazon Q Developer will generate content that is nondeterministic in nature. This means that the exact output from Amazon Q Developer cannot be predetermined. Throughout this exercise, you may be required to debug and troubleshoot with Amazon Q Developer to reach desired results. You may need to complete tasks that are not defined in this exercise because of generative AI and its nondeterministic nature.

You will:

✅ Sign up for an AWS Builder ID

✅ Install and connect to Amazon Q Developer

✅ Explore and fix bugs in an existing Python app

✅ Convert the app to a basic web application using the /dev agent

✅ Generate documentation using the /doc agent

Troubleshooting
🤔 If you get stuck or run into any errors, go back a few steps to ensure you didn't miss any instructions.

🛠️ Still having trouble? Try these steps:

🔁 Rerun the application or refresh the Q Developer chat.
📋 Double-check for typos in code or invalid inputs.
🌐 Make sure your internet connection is active.
🧹 Restart Visual Studio Code if Q Developer isn’t responding.

Prerequisites
Before you start, you need to have:

Python 3.x

AWS CLI configured with AWS credentials (aws configure)

Visual Studio Code

If you do not have AWS credentials configured, Python, and Visual Studio Code installed, return to Exercise 1 to install needed prerequisites.

Task 1: Create an AWS Builder ID
You will first sign up for an AWS Builder ID. An AWS Builder ID is a personal identity that allows you to access certain AWS tools and services like Amazon Q Developer without being tied to a specific AWS account. It’s free to create and only takes a few minutes.

Visit the documentation linked below and follow instructions on how to create an AWS Builder ID:

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/signin/latest/userguide/create-aws_builder_id.html

Sign up with your email and follow the instructions to verify your account.

Task 2: Set up project structure and install the Amazon Q Developer Extension in Visual Studio Code
There are multiple ways you can interact with Amazon Q Developer. One way is to use the Amazon Q Developer Extension in your IDE. You will install the Amazon Q Developer extension in Visual Studio Code.

Open a new terminal or command line prompt. 

If you're on a Mac, run:

cd ~/Desktop && python3 -m venv exercise2 && source exercise2/bin/activate && pip install boto3 jupyter 

If you're on Windows, run:

cd ~/Desktop
python -m venv exercise2
.\exercise2\Scripts\Activate.ps1
pip install boto3 jupyter

Open Visual Studio Code.

Select File > Open Folder, and navigate to the exercise2 folder created in step 1.

Go to the Extensions panel in Visual Studio Code.

Search for Amazon Q and install the Amazon Q Developer extension.

Click the Q icon in the sidebar and sign in using your AWS Skill Builder ID.

Task 3: Load and Explore the Python CLI App
First, create a new directory to keep your work organized. Inside the directory, create a new file that you will use to troubleshoot the code.

Create a new folder in Visual Studio Code by selecting File, and then Open Folder > New Folder > Create. 

Name the new folder code.

With the code folder selected, create a new file in Visual Studio Code by selecting File > New File. 

Select Python File. This will open a new file.

Next, you'll need to copy the following code into the file to troubleshoot and experiment with Amazon Q.

40393837343536313233293025262728232422202119181716151413121191087645231
class Task:
    def __init__(self, name, priority):
        self.name = name
        self.priority = int(priority)  

    def __str__(self):
        return f"[Priority {self.priority}] {self.name}"

class TaskManager:
    def __init__(self):

Once you have opened the file, copy and paste the sample code and save the file as task_tracker.py.

Return to the Terminal. Ensure you are in the code folder. Run ls if you are using a Mac or dir if you are using a Windows machine. You should see the task_tracker.py file in the output.

✏️ If you do not see the file listed in the output, you must change directories into the appropriate folder. Run the command: cd code to change directories into the code folder.

✏️ If you do see the task_tracker.py file listed in the output, proceed to the next step.

Type the following command to run the application:
python task_tracker.py

Try adding, listing, and removing tasks to explore the current behavior.

Task 4: Debug with Q Developer
This application has defects that need to be resolved. You will work with Amazon Q Developer to attempt to resolve the known issues. Try the following tasks to uncover bugs in the application:

Add a task with non-integer priority (e.g., high).

Remove a task with an out-of-range index.

Observe sorting behavior when listing tasks. Notice how the highest priority isn't listed first (1 being highest priority, 5 being lowest priority).

Amazon Q Developer has multiple features you can use to attempt to fix the defects.

In VSC, at the bottom navigation pane, choose Amazon Q. Then, choose Open Chat Panel. In the chat window, enter the following questions:

Why does the app crash on non-integer input?

How to fix the error when an out-of-range task index is input for removal?

How to validate inputs?

How to sort the task list by priority in ascending order?

For each question you ask, Q Developer should recognize the error and implement a fix.

View the updates provided by Q Developer to determine if you want to accept the bug fixes.

Iterate with Q Developer in the chat until you are satisfied with the results, test the changes, and continue until all of the defects are resolved.

Task 5: Feature Implementation using the Amazon Q Developer /dev Agent
Now you will use the /dev agent in Q Developer to convert the application from a python command line application to a web application using Flask.

Enter the following into the Amazon Q Developer chat window:
/dev Convert this CLI task tracker into a Flask web app that saves tasks to a local file. Include a front-end and back-end implementation. Use the code folder as context. If any dependencies are needed, generate them in the requirements.txt file in the code directory.

⏰ Q Developer will then generate a plan and the code for this feature implementation. It could take a few minutes to generate.

🚨 If you see the following error: The folder you selected is too large for me to use as context. Please choose a smaller folder to work on, follow the prompts to change the source folder to be the code folder where the Python file is located.

When Q Developer provides a plan and generates code, follow any additional steps in Q Developer.

✏️ After the code has been generated, ensure you are downloading and installing any needed dependencies. To view dependencies, check the requirements.txt file generated by Q Developer.

Open a new Terminal window in Visual Studio Code by selecting Terminal, and then New Window.

Make sure you are in the code directory. If you're not, use the cd command to navigate to the correct directory.

Run the following command to download dependencies:
pip install -r requirements.txt

✏️ If you receive an error command not found: pip, you might have conflicts between Python package versions. To continue with the exercise, consider one of the following fixes:

Option 1: Switch to your computer Terminal or command prompt and run pip install -r requirements.txt.
Option 2: In Visual Studio Code, in the Terminal, run pip3 install -r requirements.txt.
Option 3: In Visual Studio Code, create and activate a virtual environment. For more information, see 
Install packages in a virtual environment using pip and venv
.
Option 4: Troubleshoot the pip installation in the 
pip documentation
.

Enter flask run to start the application.

✏️ This command launches the Flask application and provides the localhost URL to access the application and test its functionality. The URL looks similar to http://127.0.0.1:5000/. Copy the URL and paste it into the new browser window.

🚨 If your application does not run due to errors, try copying and pasting the error into the Q chat interface and crafting a prompt asking Q to fix the problem or provide tips.

Iterate with Q developer using the chat window in the browser until you are satisfied with the features of the application.

Task 6: Document Your App
You will now generate documentation for the task tracker web application using the /doc agent.

Open a new Q chat window and type the following:
/doc

Select the option to create a README file for your project and follow the steps provided by Q Developer.

Save the generated documentation in your project folder and review.

Iterate with Q Developer until satisfied.

Task 7: Cleanup
Stop the Flask app by pressing Ctl+C in the Terminal session where the application is running.

Exit Amazon Q Developer by clicking on the X button in the chat interface.

✅ Exercise Complete
You've now:

✅ Debugged a Python app

✅ Used Q Developer to fix code and handle errors

✅ Converted the app into a basic web app

✅ Practiced interacting with multiple Q Developer agents

Additional Resources
Amazon Q Developer

Amazon Q Developer User Guide

Amazon Q Developer for GitHub

Amazon Q Developer on the Command Line


